Hello everyone. Thanks for watching this video.
Today we present our work,
Exploiting Edge-Oriented Reasoning for 3D Point-based Scene Graph Analysis.
Scene understanding is a critical problem in computer vision.
In this paper, we propose a 3D point-based scene graph generation framework
to effectively bridge perception and reasoning to achieve scene understanding.
It contains three sequential stages,
scene graph construction,
scene graph reasoning,
and scene graph inference.
In scene graph construction, for each 3D real-world scan or synthetic scene,
we firstly sample its point-based representation
and pass these points into a point cloud processing backbone network,
such as PointNet or DGCNN,
to derive their point-wise features.
Then a symmetric pooling function is performed
along the class-agnostic point-to-instance indicator
to generate the instance-wise node features,
followed by the initialisation of our multi-dimensional edge features between the objects.
These captured node and edge features will be adopted for constructing the initial
scene graph representation for further reasoning operations.
The popular GCN and its variants focus more on node recognition tasks over the edge ones,
while underestimating the discriminative potentials of the multi-dimensional edge features.
Hence, we built our Vanilla EdgeGCN, which simply contains two independent evolution streams
for each graph representation.
Encouraged by the recent advances in graph reasoning,
we further investigated two twinning attentions between nodes and edges representations.
Specifically, we are particularly interested in how the node evolution could benefit from
the visual cues lurking inside the multi-dimensional edge features, and,
whether the evolved node features could further payback to augment the edge evolution.
These two assumptions bring us EdgeGCN.
With EdgeGCN, we could now exploit multi-dimensional edge features to conduct
more comprehensive reasoning on graph representation learning.
In last stage, two Multilayer Perceptron based inference streams are established
as Node MLP and Edge MLP with residual connections.
Our ultimate goal is to create a scene graph, whose nodes and edges depict the
instance objects and their inner structural relationships, respectively.
For our real-world scene graph studies, we manually checked and carefully revised
the raw 3DSSG datasets to a cleaned version, with mappings to
more popular and meaningful sets of instance semantics and structural relationships.
This cleaned version contains 27 Object classes and 16 types of structural Relationships.
Below are the changes from the raw one:
We outperform other graph reasoning approaches on three related scene graph generation tasks.
In our ablation studies, we demonstrate the contribution of each module design.
And here is our quantitative comparison with previous work.
Here are more qualitative results.
We also verified EdgeGCN on conventional graph representation learning tasks,
including 3 node-wise classifications on citation datasets,
which are Cora, CiteSeer, and Pubmed,
and 2 whole-graph recognitions for molecular analysis on Tox21 and BBBP.
All models are repeatedly trained and evaluated for 50 runs.
Thanks for watching.